One of the possible symptoms of
lung cancer is shortness of breath.
When you inhale,
the air moves down your main airway,
called your trachea.
The air then moves into smaller airways
that branch into your lungs.
These smaller airways end in flexible
elastic sacs that expand and contract
as you breathe in and out,
filling and emptying your lungs.
Cancer is caused by cells that multiply
faster than normal and, unlike normal cells,
cancer cells don’t die.
All these cells growing together
in one spot forms a mass or tumor.
If not caught early,
a mass in your lungs can grow large enough
to block flow of air
in and out of the airways and sacs.
Eventually, the area that cannot receive
air may collapse.